# ESSMultipleComparisons
The public repository containing supplemental information on the project 'Effective sample size calibrated multiple comparison methods for long memory US stock volatilities' by Holly Bossart and Dr. Jaechoul Lee of Boise State University.

## Abstract
Volatilities in stock prices often show long range dependence, representing significant autocorrelations for observations even in large time lags.  Multiple comparison methods can be used to identify the series of different mean volatilities. However, the classical multiple comparison methods, including Fisher’s least significant differences test, Tukey’s honestly significant differences test, and Student-Newman-Keuls test, will produce erroneously sensitive comparison results for long memory time series because these methods are developed for independent data. To accurately achieve the target significance level for long memory data, we propose using effective sample size (ESS) methods to calibrate these three popular multiple comparison tests. Our simulation results show that the calibrated multiple comparison methods are appreciably accurate for comparing simulated long memory series. We use the ESS-calibrated multiple comparison methods applied to the stock price volatilities of thirty prominent companies from 2016--2019. After using change point analysis to detect a sudden rise in mean stock volatilities of thirty prominent companies in January 2018, we analyze means before and after the changepoint using our ESS modified multiple comparison tests. With recent empirical evidence showing that low-volatility companies can outperform high-volatility companies, our methods help accurately identify which companies are low or high volatility and how the economic measure around January of 2018 has influenced the volatility of these companies in United States.
